The Project Gutenberg EBook of A Historical Sketch of Company "B,"
Eighteenth Regiment Ohio Volunteer , by Jewett Palmer

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: A Historical Sketch of Company "B," Eighteenth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry
       Three Months Service

Author: Jewett Palmer

Release Date: September 6, 2019 [EBook #60243]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HISTORICAL SKETCH OF COMPANY B ***




Produced by Craig Kirkwood and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive.)









A HISTORICAL SKETCH OF COMPANY “B” EIGHTEENTH REGIMENT OHIO VOLUNTEER
INFANTRY


  THREE MONTHS SERVICE

  WRITTEN BY
  JEWETT PALMER
  A MEMBER OF THE COMPANY

  FIFTY YEARS FROM THE
  DATE OF ENLISTMENT

  APRIL 22, 1861 -:- APRIL 22, 1911

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: CAPTAIN FRANK BUELL]




COMPANY B 18th Regiment Ohio Volunteers--Three Months Troops.


The company was recruited by Frank Buell, at Marietta, Ohio, who was at
the time Captain of the “Union Blues,” an independent company of the
Ohio militia. It was enrolled from the 15th to the 22nd of April, 1861,
though a few men joined as late as May 27th, the date of our arrival
at Marietta from Columbus, on our way into Virginia. Governor Dennison
accepted Captain Buell’s tender of the company on April 17th, and our
term of service dates from that time.

We left Marietta on Monday morning, April 22nd. The evening before,
Sunday, the 21st, the company attended divine service at the
Congregational church, where Rev. Thomas Wickes, D. D., the pastor of
the church, delivered an earnest patriotic sermon. To this address,
R. L. Nye, Esq., a member of the company, feelingly replied. Each
member of the company was presented with a neat pocket edition of the
New Testament by the Washington County Bible Society, through its
president, Mr. Daniel P. Bosworth, Sr. At the close of this ceremony
two of the members of the company, William Holden and Thomas H. North,
were received into the church.

Just before embarking on the steamer “Lizzie Martin” for Zanesville,
on the morning of the 22d, a beautiful silk flag, provided by the
women of Marietta, was presented to the company by Melvin Clarke,
Esq., in a short patriotic address, to which Captain Buell briefly but
earnestly responded, giving the company’s pledge that the banner never
would be disgraced in its hands. Fully 3,000 people were assembled at
the time on the “Common” in front of the Congregational church. I
give the following description of the leave taking from the “Marietta
Intelligencer,” of May 1st, 1861.

  “... Then followed the leave-taking, a scene that cannot be
  described. Here were fathers and mothers hanging upon the necks of
  sons in a last long embrace, wives clinging to their husbands in
  agonies of distress, brothers bidding adieu to brothers, friend
  giving friend his farewell greeting. Scarcely a dry eye was to be
  seen in the immense crowd. But the sorrow of parting, though it
  caused the tears to flow abundantly, was mitigated by the thought
  that children, kindred and friends--all were responding to the call
  of duty, they were going to defend the government to which we all owe
  our safety--our very existence.

  “The company was ranged on the hurricane deck, and as the boat moved
  out from the landing cheer upon cheer arose from the vast assemblage,
  hats were swung, handkerchiefs waved, and many a ‘God speed you,’
  uttered, and the crowd slowly and sadly dispersed.”

On our way to Zanesville we were cheered at every landing, and at the
more important points we were received with the most enthusiastic
demonstrations. At Lowell, the home of Captain Buell, at Beverly,
Windsor, McConnelsville, Malta, all day long cheers, addresses,
salutes, and every demonstration that the bubbling spirit of patriotism
could suggest were furnished until on our arrival at Zanesville we were
fairly worn out with the overwhelming attentions of the people.

A letter written after our arrival at Columbus to the “Marietta
Republican,” by Eli P. Boring, a printer who had volunteered from the
force of that paper, gives so good a description of our journey that I
gladly subjoin it in full:

  “Columbus, Ohio, April 30, 1861.

  “Col. McCormick:--After leaving Marietta we were received with ‘loud
  and long applause’ at every village along the Muskingum valley. At
  Lowell, (Capt. Buell’s home,) the whole neighborhood was on the
  bank of the canal. At Beverly patriotism was boiling over. The
  ladies on Sunday morning went to work and made a flag 54 feet long
  and well proportioned in width, and the gentlemen got a pole 60
  or 75 feet long and raised it within about 30 feet of the locks,
  and by the time we arrived there the flag was ‘proudly floating to
  the breeze,’ with men, women and children rallying around. Captain
  Barclay, with about 40 men for a ‘Home Guard,’ received us with three
  salutes, each man having a gun of some kind. At Windsor, Luke Chute,
  McConnelsville, and in fact every place along the river the people
  were out on the banks cheering for the Union and for the volunteers.
  We arrived at Zanesville about 12 o’clock midnight, and marched
  through several of the streets, led by our ‘Young America Brass
  Band,’ who received scores of compliments for their excellent music.
  We left Zanesville at 2:00 o’clock A. M. arriving here about 6 A. M.,
  and it was 1 P. M. before any of the boys got their breakfast, and
  when they got it not one could eat, the meat being bad and the coffee
  very poor, but, through the influence of Mr. George W. Gili, we got
  good quarters on Thursday evening, where we have been ever since.
  After breakfast we march to Camp Jackson, and drill until 12 o’clock,
  then march back to our quarters and take dinner. In the afternoon
  we go through the same and return to supper. From 5 o’clock we have
  until 9 for our own use, and you can just bet high we make use of
  it. At 9:00 the roll is called and we retire to the loft of a very
  large brick barn with our blankets and each a good comforter. It is
  the general opinion that we will be sent back to Marietta or to Camp
  Dennison, to be kept as the reserve militia of Ohio, either of which
  will be protested against by every member of our company. We want
  to go where we can have something to do. There is not a man of us
  who can bear the idea of lying around a camp. If there is to be any
  fighting done we want a hand in it. We parted from our friends with
  the expectation of being in Washington city, or on our way to Fort
  Pickens or Fort Sumpter before this time. If there is any fighting
  done it will be a sore disappointment to all of us if we do not have
  a mix.

  “E. P. B.”

As friend Boring states we arrived at Columbus about 6:00 A. M. We were
marched up to the State House and spent the day about the grounds. We
had a meal about 1 o’clock P. M., at the “Goodale House,” but so many
hungry men had preceded us that but little to eat was left and that
little was of poor quality and poorly cooked and served.

Some of our boys had friends in the city and were invited to dinner
with them and thus fared sumptuously. The first night we were quartered
in the basement of the state house, where we slept on beds of straw
upholstered with small lumps of coal. The next night we quartered in
the rotunda of the capitol building, sleeping on the marble floor with
neither straw nor coal to temper the springs of our beds. The next day
we went to “Camp Jackson,” now “Goodale Park.” Here we spent some four
weeks, drilling and learning the other duties of soldiers. On Thursday,
the 25th, we were given quarters at the Ohio Penitentiary, taking our
meals there and sleeping on the parlor and office floors and in the
loft of a large barn adjoining the prison. Our meals during the time
we were quartered here were taken at the mess table of the officers
of the prison and were very satisfactory and a great improvement over
our camp fare. We remained here about two weeks, when we returned to
our barracks in camp. During our stay at the Penitentiary we spent the
hours between meals at the camp drilling, etc.

Our patience was sorely tried during this period for we were very
anxious to be assigned to a regiment and to get into the field. Some of
our members finding opportunity to get into regiments that were going
into active service sought transfers and left us. Among these I now
recall R. L. Nye and Frank Bosworth, who entered the 17th O., J. Mills
Kendrick, who found a position in the Adjutant General’s office, at
Columbus, and “Dick” (Richard H.) Green, who recruited a company for
the 25th Ohio, three year service, and became its captain. However,
we at length were assigned to the 18th O. as Co. B. Capt. Buell was a
modest man, without political “pull,” and our representative in the
legislature, Hon. John Haddow, while a patriotic, level headed, well
meaning man, was inexperienced in political wire pulling, and was
no match for the men of large experience and great cheek, who were
constantly wedging themselves in and wedging us out. Both Mr. Haddow
and Captain Buell were blamed for these delays, but I am satisfied that
they both did the best they could. Buell was scarcely more than a boy,
being but 23 years old, and he could not be expected to cope with men
of greater experience and less conscience.

But at last the order came for us to “break camp” and it was received
with uproarious delight. We left “Camp Jackson” on May 23rd for
Loveland, where we changed cars for Athens. We arrived there on the
24th and were mustered into the service by Major Joshua W. Sill,[1] of
the regular army.

After spending a few days here in “Camp Scott,” we departed for
Marietta on the evening of the 27th. Arrived at Marietta about 11
o’clock in the evening and marched up to “Camp Putnam,” where we spent
the night. Co. K, Captain John Henderson, of Beverly, accompanied us to
Athens, from “Camp Jackson.”

At Marietta we found a number of other companies of the regiment
assembled.

On the morning of the 28th the company was formed and marched down town
to show our home people the improvement we had made in our military
education. After an exhibition of our skill in military evolution and
an hour or two spent with our friends, we returned to camp. At this
time quite a number of recruits joined the company and were mustered
in. Immediately after dinner we received marching orders. We left camp
about 3:00 P. M. and marched down town and across the bridge to Harmar,
where in due time we boarded cars and pulled out for Parkersburg.

We crossed the river at Parkersburg on the railroad ferry boat
“Webster,” and moved out to the farm of a Mr. Hutchins, adjoining Judge
Stephenson’s. We were the first to camp on this ground, afterwards
throughout the war known as “Camp Union,” the name given it that day by
Captain Buell.

Our tents and baggage did not arrive until about 11 o’clock P. M.
During the night a cold rain set in and some of the boys, John T. Booth
and others, got one of the tents pitched, which was the first tent put
up in “Camp Union.”

The other tents were pitched early in the morning and soon things began
to look more cheerful. The 14th Ohio, Col. Steedman, from Toledo, had
encamped in Parkersburg previous to our arrival, but they occupied the
railroad depot, being without tents.

Today, the 29th, an election for field officers of the regiment was
held with the following result:

Colonel, Timothy R. Stanley, of Athens; Lieut. Colonel, Capt. William
Bolles, of Company C, Ironton, and for Major, our Second Lieutenant,
William H. Bisbee, of Marietta.

We received our first accoutrements today: knapsacks, haversacks,
canteens, caps, socks, etc.

Thursday, May 30th--Early this morning orders came to “strike tents”
and prepare to move. We marched down to the railroad track and there
waited until about 2:00 o’clock P. M., when our train arrived and
we started off eastward. During our wait Col. Stanley addressed the
regiment. The people of Parkersburg gave us a good dinner, today. We
moved slowly out, while our friends who had congregated to see us off
gave us hearty cheers and God speed. We were now in high spirits as we
were at last “in the field,” after five weeks of weary waiting, and
disappointments. Our train, however, soon stopped when a corporal and
six men were told off and left to guard the trestle near by. This was
repeated until well toward evening Capt. Buell and his remaining 20 men
were disembarked at what was afterwards known as the “Burnt Bridge,”
over Walker’s Creek, half a mile west of Petroleum station. Co. A,
Captain John McMahon, was also left here with us. This bridge, about
60 feet in length, had been burned by the enemy, two nights before.
After a meager supper we were taken up and stationed for the night on
the top of an abrupt eminence overlooking the bridge, where we spent
the night anxiously waiting for a prowling enemy. Practically every man
of the company was on guard. Two prowlers came to the neighborhood of
the bridge during the night and one of Co. A fired on them, but without
known effect.

May 31--About dark the Captain with a detail of men made a trip down
the railroad track, about three miles, to a tunnel, guarded by Corporal
Holden and a squad of six men. He talked with the dwellers along the
line and after hearing the corporal’s report of an attack upon him the
night before, which he and his command gallantly beat off, we returned
to camp, arriving about 11 P. M.

After supper we camped down as best we could for the night, receiving
orders, however, to be ready at daylight on the morrow to go on the
march.

Today, (June 1), contrary to expectations, we remained in camp all day.

June 2--Were called out about an hour before daylight and started for
a point called California, on the N. Western Pike, at which place, one
Clark, hotel keeper, was reported to have concealed a large store of
arms and ammunition, and where the young men of the neighborhood were
in the habit of meeting to drill. After diligent search and finding
nothing of a warlike character we passed on to “Goose Creek.” Spent
most of the day in searching houses of the citizens suspected of
disloyalty. In one house an enraged citizen was poked out of a wheat
bin in his loft, by John T. Booth, who had put his bayonet on his gun
for the purpose of “feeling round” in the bin. He came out of that
bin with his fighting clothes on. Returning we reached camp early in
the evening. During our absence a rumor reached camp that we were in
a tight place and a part of company A was sent out to succor us. They
had a long hard march for nothing, but, we were learning the trade of
soldiering and it all counted.

Last night and today, (June 3), a down pour of rain visited us and our
bridge, almost completed, is in danger of being carried away. Wm. Scott
went home on sick leave today.

June 4.--The rain kept up all night and our bridge was partially
swept away. A large number of soldiers detailed to assist in getting
out timber for repairing the structure. On June 5, trains were again
crossing the bridge.

On June 6, a “Liberty Pole” was erected at Petroleum station, and when
the flag was run up Companies A and B under command of Captain McMahon
saluted it with three rounds.

June 7.--Captain Buell returned from Parkersburg, where he had been on
orders, on an early train. Following this came another on which was our
scattered squads, who had been relieved. We joined them and were soon
under way eastward. Stopping a few moments at Ellenboro to permit the
“Express” to pass, we moved on to “Toll Gate” station, where Co. B was
disembarked, and went into camp. Our duty here was to guard another
“burnt bridge,” near the station. Co. K, Captain Henderson, went into
camp just east of us. This evening, our stock of soft bread having
run low, and the boys not having as yet quite fallen in love with
our “cylinder heads” as they termed our big round hard biscuit--the
Captain detailed a squad of us to take a barrel of flour on a hand car
to Ellenboro, nine miles back, and have it turned into bread. Arriving
at Ellenboro about dark we distributed the flour among a number of the
families of the village and by 9 o’clock in the evening we had a fine
supply of good bread and biscuits. We reached camp about midnight.
This was a foolhardy performance, especially at night. The trains
were not only off time but extras were moving constantly. Between our
camp and Ellenboro there was at least one very long tunnel and it is
a marvel that we were not run down by one of these trains. The people
of Ellenboro were so kind and hospitable to us that it is safe to say
none of that squad will ever forget our novel but delightful experience
there.

Under this date the Marietta Republican says: “The ladies of Marietta
have furnished many articles for the comfort of the Washington County
Volunteers, now in Virginia. The Havelock or linen shades to be worn
on their caps will be appreciated this hot weather and so will the
canteens.” This “Havelock” was well meant but on a hot day the “shade”
as the editor called it seemed to keep the air from circulating about
the neck and rather increased than allayed our discomforts, and they
were soon discarded. The writer still preserves his in his collection
of war relics.

“June 8.--Today we held an election for Second Lieutenant to fill
the vacancy created by the election of Lieut. Bisbee as Major of the
regiment. A number of candidates were voted for. After the first ballot
the contest narrowed down to three, Jewett Palmer, Jr., who received
a plurality on the first ballot, Wallace W. Hill and Oscar Underwood.
After the second ballot Underwood was dropped, and on the third ballot,
after a spirited contest, Hill was elected, by a majority of five.” The
writer felt very proud of his support when he reflected that six weeks
before he had not known half a dozen men in the company. Hill was a
fine soldier, and distinguished himself later in the war as commander
of his battery, “C,” 1st W. Va., Light Artillery.

Sunday, June 9.--Quietly in camp.

On June 10, about 11 o’clock P. M., Capt. Buell with about 50 men of
his company and a like number from Co. K, under Capt. Henderson, set
out for a point some ten miles distant, where it was reported a native
had a quantity of arms and equipments stored. The force reached and
surrounded the place about daylight--stirred out the garrison--one
man, a not overly bright woman, an idiotic child and a rifle, with an
old broken flint lock. By careful maneuvering the command succeeded in
reaching camp about 11 o’clock A. M., without the loss of a man.

On June 11th, Col. H. B. Canington, Adjutant General of Ohio, and
Col. T. R. Stanley, accompanied by the “McArthur Cornet Band,” our
regimental band, paid us a brief visit and passed on to Parkersburg.

On June 12.--Col. Stanley called at the camp of Company K, on his
way east and made the boys a brief address. During the day we had a
visit from Hon. Geo. P. Buell, of the “Cincinnati Times,” a brother of
Captain Frank’s, Dr. Hall, of Harrisville, Va., and Ed. C. Skinnard,
clerk in the Marietta P. O. The latter brought a quantity of mail for
us from the folks at home.

On June 13 our first blouses were received and while they were being
distributed a train “whistled in” and the order was given to strike
tents and load up. We were soon under way and arrived at Clarksburg
about noon. After an hour’s wait we moved on to Bridgeport, about
6 miles beyond. Here we left the cars and marched out about a mile
north of the village to the Sandusky farm, where we went into what
proved to be the pleasantest camp of our three months’ experience.
Situated on a gentle elevation covered with a solid turf, with plenty
of shade and good water near at hand, we here enjoyed our soldier life
to the utmost. Company A rejoined us here and the camp was under the
command of Captain McMahon. We remained here four weeks, until July
13th, drilling, guarding railroad bridges and tunnels, taking in an
occasional “secesh” prowler and making ourselves generally useful.
The next day after our arrival some generous hearted neighbor came
into camp with a wagon load of bread, butter, milk and other edibles,
a free offering which we greatly enjoyed. During our stay here the
people of Bridgeport and the surrounding country placed us under
constant obligations for like generous treatment. The remembrance of
this kindness is fresh in the minds of all the survivors of the two
companies.

On the 18th, our Major, W. H. Bisbee, visited the camp and the boys,
especially of Co. B, gave him a warm greeting.

On the 2nd of July, Sergt. T. G. Field, Corporals Holden and Haskins,
and privates Palmer, Pixley, Stanley, Vickers and drummer Fougeres,
went home on furlough for a few days.

On this day also our Drum Major, Ebenezer Corey, returned to camp from
Marietta with ten recruits for the band: George Jenvey, William Jenvey,
Charles Holden, H. M. Langley, John Tenney, James Judd, Henry Corey,
Frank Brenan, Fred Regnier and Wm. H. Smith.

While in camp here privates William Holden and Charles P. Wilson were
detailed at the request of Lieut. John C. Paxton, our Regimental
Quartermaster, for clerks in his office at Clarksburg, where the
headquarters of the regiment were located.

FOOTNOTE:

[1] Afterwards Colonel of the 33rd Ohio Infantry. Promoted to Brigadier
General after the battle of Perryville. Killed at the battle of Stone
river, Dec. 31st, 1862.


JULY 4.

For some days the people of the vicinity and the men in camp had
been preparing for a celebration of the day and by 8:00 o’clock in
the morning the people began to arrive with wagons loaded with bread
and butter, cakes, pies, roast chicken, roast pigs and dainties
innumerable. Our camp had been thoroughly policed and put in prime
order, and the camp guard had strict orders for the night before not
to permit any one to pass out and no passes were given. This was to
prevent any of the boys from visiting an “Apple Jack” distillery
located not far from camp. The Captains were to put their best foot
forward in their part of the day’s displays and did not want the
“spirits” mixed, when the time for parade came. A number of long tables
had been erected in the shade of the trees near camp and these were
early covered with the superabundant supplies. Scores of young ladies
came with the crowds and they were the waiters at the dinner. By 9:00
o’clock the crowd on the ground numbered fully one thousand. At 10 A.
M. came the drill, followed by a dress parade. The exhibition embraced
manual of arms, company evolutions, volley firing, etc., to the great
enjoyment of the people.

The boys felt proud of their part of the day’s doings and were
complimented highly for their efficiency. After the military show was
over violins were brought out and soon soldiers and citizens, the young
ladies especially, were joined in the dance on the green sward under
the branches of the great oaks. Games of many kinds were indulged
in--swings were put up and liberally patronized by the youngsters, and
all hands enjoyed themselves in various ways until the dinner hour. At
12:30 dinner was announced, when the companies fired “three rounds”
as the closing act of the forenoon’s programme. Just at this time a
train load of enthusiastic soldiers and citizens arrived from Grafton
and other points east of us and Co. B formed and marched over to
Bridgeport and escorted them to camp. The dinner was a great success.
Five times the tables were filled and cleared of food and guests. No
one was neglected or turned away hungry. After dinner a member of Co.
A delivered a well prepared address in an impressive manner. He was
followed by Capt. Buell in a brief and spirited address, and he by an
elderly minister of the locality, whose name has escaped me. Songs,
sentimental, military and comic, fife and drum and violin music were
interspersed and a most enjoyable day all too rapidly drew to a close.

From July 5th to the 13th, the routine of camp duties went on as
before, but on that day marching orders were received. By 5:00 o’clock
P. M., tents were struck and taken to the station, except a few left
to shelter the men detailed to guard camp in our absence. We soon were
under way eastward.

Our train now held the full regiment, the first time we had come
together as such since leaving Parkersburg, May 29th. We arrived at
Oakland on the morning of the 14th, and lay in camp until the afternoon
of the 15th, when, Whitelaw Reid says, “About 5:00 o’clock P. M.,
Gen. Hill moved with the 5th and 18th Ohio regiments from Oakland in
a diagonal line to the bridge on the Northwestern Pike, over the west
branch of the Potomac, at which point he was to be joined by Col.
Irvine’s command from Red House, intending to turn the enemy’s right
and cut them off before they could reach Petersburg. Here, at the
bridge a dispatch was received from McClellan informing Hill of the
action at Carrick’s Ford and the death of Garnett.”

We “marched over the Allegheny mountains, a distance of 35-1/2 miles
in 24 hours, after leaving Oakland. At 4:00 o’clock the next morning
(17th) Gen. Hill, with about 800 picked men in light marching order
started for an additional forced march but after moving five miles was
overtaken by a courier with a dispatch from McClellan ordering him to
return.”

We returned leisurely to Oakland and there went into camp, remaining
until the morning of the 23rd of July, when the regiment took cars for
the west. We reached Bridgeport about the middle of the afternoon and
after getting our camp guards and equipage aboard moved slowly on to
Clarksburg. Here we went into camp until the 30th when we again took
cars for Parkersburg and home! While in camp at Clarksburg a call was
made for volunteers to go to Rosecrans, on Gauley, where he was about
to engage in battle with Gen. Floyd’s forces.

The regiment was drawn up in line and a call made upon those who were
willing to go to step out five paces to the front. Not a score of men
left their places in the ranks. Our time had expired on the 17th, and
many of the men had already made arrangements to enter the three years’
service in other organizations and were anxious to get home and take up
the new work.

We jogged along nearly all night, 30th-31st, side-tracking for
eastbound trains, nearly all of which carried troops. As we were
nearing Parkersburg early in the day of the 31st a man belonging to Co.
I, fell from the top of a car and was mortally hurt, dying a day or
two later. At Parkersburg we took the railroad ferry steamer, “Daniel
Webster,” for Marietta, the same boat that brought us to Parkersburg in
May. We arrived off Harmar about 2:00 o’clock P. M. The banks on both
sides of the Ohio and Muskingum rivers were lined with our friends, who
had assembled to bid us welcome.

The “Putnam Light Artillery,” of Marietta, boomed forth a loud-mouthed
welcome. The boat rounded to near the “Point.” Here we disembarked and
after a warm greeting by our friends, fell in and marched through the
city to “Camp Putnam.” The whole population seemed to be out and our
march was a continuous ovation. Before “Camp Putnam” was reached Co.
B was reduced to a platoon. Many of the town boys quietly slipped out
of ranks and accompanied their friends home. About the middle of the
following forenoon the regiment was drawn up in line in Camp Putnam,
when Col. Stanley gave us a few final words of farewell, and we were
dismissed until such time as we should be called together for final
muster-out and pay. On August 30th, the following call appeared in the
Marietta papers:

  “ATTENTION COMPANIES B AND K!

  “Companies B and K, 18th Regiment, O. V. M., will be paid off at
  Marietta, on Thursday, Sept. 5th prox. All members are ordered to
  rendezvous at the time and place appointed, to receive their money
  and discharges.

  FRANK BUELL, Capt. Co. B.
  JOHN HENDERSON, Capt. Co. K.
  Marietta. O., Aug. 30, 1861.”

The following is a




DESCRIPTIVE ROLL OF THE COMPANY


with the after service in the army of each member so far as the same
has been ascertained. The names of those who have died are marked with
a *.

* CAPTAIN, FRANK BUELL--Commissioned captain of Battery C, 1st West
Virginia Light Artillery, January 25th, 1862, and commanded the same
until his death. He was mortally wounded at Freeman’s Ford, Virginia,
August 22nd, 1862, and died next day at Bealton Station, Va., and his
remains buried there.

* FIRST LIEUTENANT, DENNIS O’LEARY.--Commissioned Senior First Lieut.
Battery C, 1st West Va. Light Artillery, January 25th, 1862. Mustered
out with battery April 22nd, 1865.

* SECOND LIEUTENANT, WILLIAM H. BISBEE.--Elected Major of the regiment
at its organization, May 29, 1861. Did not re-enter the service.

* SECOND LIEUTENANT, WALLACE W. HILL.--Elected 2nd Lieut. of the
company June 22, 1861, to fill the vacancy occasioned by the promotion
of Lieut. Bisbee to Major. Commissioned Junior 1st Lieut. of Battery
C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery, January 25th, 1862, and promoted to
Captain, October 16, 1862, and commanded the battery from that time
until its muster out of the service, April 22, 1865.

* FIRST SERGEANT, JOHN G. THEIS.--Commissioned Senior 2nd Lieut. of
Battery C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery, January 25, 1862, and Junior 1st
Lieut., October 16, 1862, to date from August 1, 1862. Mustered out
with battery, April 22, 1865.

* SECOND SERGEANT, DANIEL Y. HILL.--Mustered out with the regiment,
August 28, 1861. Did not again enter the regular service.

* THIRD SERGEANT, OWEN O’NEILL.--Sergeant Battery C, 1st W. Va. Light
Artillery. Mustered out with battery, April 22, 1865. Afterwards served
25 years in the Regular Army and was on the retired list of the army at
the time of his death, May 7, 1907.

* FOURTH SERGEANT, THEODORE G. FIELD.--First Sergeant Battery C, 1st W.
Va. Light Artillery. Promoted to 2nd Lieut., December 1, 1863. Mustered
out with the battery. Brevetted Major U. S. Volunteers after the war.

FIRST CORPORAL, WALLACE W. WITHROW.--Commissioned 2nd Lieut., Battery
C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery, January 25, 1862. Resigned, December 28,
1862, on account of disability from wounds received in action.

* SECOND CORPORAL, JOHN D. HOLDEN.--Commissioned 2nd Lieut., Battery
K, 1st Ohio Light Artillery, October 10, 1861. Promoted to 1st Lieut.,
February 19, 1862. Resigned, March 27, 1862.

* THIRD CORPORAL, SAMUEL C. SKINNER. Did not re-enter the service.

* FOURTH CORPORAL, GEORGE B. HASKINS.--Commissioned 1st Lieut., Battery
K, 1st Ohio Light Artillery, October 10, 1861. Resigned November 2,
1862.

* MUSICIAN, EBENEZER COREY.--Promoted to Drum Major, June 6, 1861. Was
afterwards Drum Major and Principal Musician of the 36th Ohio Infantry.
Served three years.

* MUSICIAN, MANLY WARREN.--Mustered out with the regiment. Did not
re-enter the service.

* MUSICIAN, LOUIS FOUGERE.--Joined Battery C, 1st W. Va. Light
Artillery as a private. Mustered out with battery.


PRIVATES.

* AMOS, MORDECAI--Enlisted as a private in Co. B, 77th Ohio Infantry,
October 14, 1861. Mustered out with regiment March 8, 1866.

BAUER, JACOB--Enlisted in Co. L, 1st Ohio Cavalry, Jany. 5, 1864.
Mustered out with regiment October 6, 1865. Waverly, West Va.

BLAIN, ROBINSON--

BOOTH, JOHN T.--Sergeant Co. G, 36th Ohio Infantry, August 12, 1861.
Mustered out on expiration of term of service. Assistant Surgeon U.
S. Army, Cuban and Philippine war and surgeon 40th U. S. Volunteer
Infantry by appointment of President McKinley. Mustered out at
expiration of service. Cincinnati, O.

* BORING, ABSALOM--Enlisted in Co. L, 1st Ohio Cavalry, Jan 5, 1864.
Mustered out with regiment, September 26, 1865.

BORING, ELI P.--Did not re-enter service.

BRAGG, BENJAMIN--Mustered out July 29, 1861. Sergeant Co. A, 36th Ohio
Infantry. Promoted to 2nd Lieut., March 8, 1865. Mustered out with
regiment July 27, 1865. Veteran.

Lieut. Bragg has the best record for continuous unbroken service of
any member of the company. His enlistment in the 18th Ohio bears date
April 17, 1861, and his entry into service with the 36th Ohio was of
date July 29th, 1861, two days before the 18th Ohio was disbanded, and
29 days before the formal muster out of that regiment. Lieut. Bragg
and the writer were in the field in West Virginia in the three years
service when the 18th was mustered out and paid and neither of us
received the balance of pay due for our 3 months service until after
the war closed.

BUKEY, ALEXANDER H.--Private in Battery C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery,
appointed corporal on its organization and promoted to Sergeant, August
1, 1862. Mustered out with battery. Veteran. Washington, D. C.

BURGESS, GEORGE ROYAL.

* CALVERT, JOHN D.--Private Co. K, 60th Ohio Infantry, October 17,
1861. Promoted to Sergeant, February 25, 1862. Mustered out November
10, 1862. Private 176th O. Infantry, February 17, 1865. Transferred to
Co. A, 18th O. Infantry, June 28, 1865. Mustered out Oct. 9, 1865.

* CLAUS, HENRY--Did not re-enter the service.

* CLOGSTON, CHARLES W.--Private Battery C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery.
Appointed corporal on its organization, promoted to Sergeant December
19, 1862. Veteran.

CLOSE, DANIEL--Private Battery A, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery.

CONIFFE, PETER L.--Did not re-enter the service.

* COREY, JOSEPH.--Private Co. G, 63rd Ohio Infantry. Promoted to
Sergeant. Died at Camp Clear Creek, Miss., July 19, 1862.

* DAILEY, THOMAS C.--Private Battery H, 1st O. Light Artillery, August
6, 1862. Appointed Corporal January 7, 1863. Promoted to Sergeant ----
---- ----, mustered out with battery.

* DAVIS, JETHRO.--Private Co. B, 39th O. Infantry, Nov. 26, 1863.
Corporal March 16, 1865. Mustered out July 9, 1865.

DEMING, T. Y.

* DEVIN, GEORGE W.--Did not re-enter the service.

* DIBBLE, HANNIBAL.--Private Battery C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery.
Mustered out with battery. Veteran.

DOW, DAVID.--Private Battery C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery. Appointed
Corporal on its organization, promoted to Sergeant, December 19, 1862.
Mustered out with battery. Veteran. Marietta, Ohio.

DRISCOL, THOMAS.--Private Battery C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery.
Mustered out with battery. Veteran.

* DYAR, THOMAS.--Mustered out July 21, 1861. Private Co. F, 39th O.
Infantry, July 21, 1861. Mustered out Aug. 12, 1864 on expiration of
his term of service.

FAIRHURST, JEREMIAH.--Private Battery K, 1st O. Light Artillery, Sept.
15, 1861. Appointed Sergeant on its organization. Wounded May 9, 1864.
Discharged for disability May 9, 1865. Veteran.

* FISHER, THOMAS.--Mustered out Aug. 12, 1861 to enter service in
Co. G, 36th O. Infantry. Private Co. G, 36th O. Infantry. August 12,
1861. Severely wounded at Antietam, Sept. 17, 1862. Discharged for
disability. Entered Co. K, 2nd O. Heavy Artillery as Sergt., July 7,
1863. Appointed 1st Sergt., July 1st, 1864. Promoted to 2nd Lieut.,
March 18, 1865. Not mustered. Mustered out with regiment Aug. 23, 1865.

FOULKE, WM. H.

GAY, WILLIAM.

GILLINGHAM, MILTON.--Private Co. L, 1st O. Cavalry. Appointed Corporal,
Sept. 19, 1864. Mustered out with regiment.

* GOODMAN, DANIEL.

* GREEN, ALLEN.--Discharged.

HATFIELD, THOMAS.

* HENNING, HENRY.--Private Battery C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery. Died
in hospital at Washington, D. C., Oct. 13, 1863.

* HENNING, JOHN.--Private Battery C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery ----
---- ----. Mustered out with battery. Veteran.

HOLDEN, WILLIAM.--Commissioned 1st Lieut. and Quarter Master 2nd W. Va.
Cavalry, Oct. 23, 1861. Resigned March 13, 1862. Appointed Captain and
A. Q. M., U. S. Volunteers and served as such to the close of the war.
Cincinnati, O.

* KROPP, AUGUST.--Mustered out July 20, 1864. 39th O. Infantry, July
20, 1861. Promoted to 1st Sergeant, and to 1st Lieut., July 3, 1862.
Resigned April 1, 1864.

LA GRANGE, LA FAYETTE D.--Private Co. B, 9th O. Cavalry, Nov. 8, 1862.
Promoted to Corporal ---- ---- ----. Mustered out with Co., July 20,
1865. Hoskinsville, Ohio.

LAUGHLIN, MILTON H.--Private Battery C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery.
Appointed Corporal. Mustered out with Battery. Veteran.

LIVING, FREDERICK.--Private Battery C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery.
Mustered out with battery. Veteran. Letart, W. Va.

* LOUFMAN, PHILIP L.--Private Battery C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery.
Mustered out with battery. Veteran.

* McCULLOUGH, JOHN.--Private Co. L, 1st O. Cavalry, Sept. 16, 1861.
Discharged Feby. 19, 1862 on surgeon’s certificate of disability.

McNAMARA, THOMAS.--Private Co. L, 1st O. Cavalry. Discharged Dec. 16,
1861 on Surgeon’s certificate of disability.

* MINER, JOHN N.--Private Battery C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery.
Promoted to Corporal. Mustered out with battery. Veteran.

* MINER, WESLEY.--Private Battery C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery, March
30, 1862. Promoted to Sergeant and to 2nd Lieut. January 12, 1863.
Resigned April 4, 1863.

* MIRABEN, LEONIDAS R.--Private Battery C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery.
Promoted to Sergeant. Mustered out with Battery. Veteran.

* MORRIS, AUGUSTUS.--Private Battery C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery.
Mustered out with battery. Veteran.

MORSE, WILBUR F.--Private Co. G, 36th O. Infantry. Appointed Sergeant
on its organization. Mustered out Sept. 4, 1864, on expiration of term
of service. Bevier, Mo.

MEIGHAM, JOHN.--Private Battery C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery. Promoted
to Corporal. Mustered out with battery. Veteran.

NORTH, THOMAS H.--Private Co. G, 36th O. Infantry, August 12, 1861.
Appointed Sergeant on its organization. Mustered out on expiration of
term of service. Kist, Oregon.

PADDEN, ANTHONY.--Lancaster, O.

PALMER, JEWETT, JR.--Mustered out August 12, 1861 to accept promotion
as Captain Co. G, 36th O. Infantry. Promoted to Major May 9, 1864.
Resigned Nov. 30, 1864. Veteran. Marietta, O.

* PARKER, JAMES S.--Private Co. L, 1st O. Cavalry, Sept. 16, 1861.
Discharged June 14, 1863 on Surgeon’s certificate of disability.

PHELPS, JAMES.

* PHELPS, THOMAS.--Appointed Q. M. Sergeant Battery C, 1st W. Va. Light
Artillery on its organization. Mustered out with Battery. Veteran.

PIXLEY, GEORGE.--Did not re-enter the service. Mansfield, O.

PIXLEY, WALLACE W.--Private Battery H, 1st O. Light Artillery, Nov. 10,
1861. Promoted to Sergeant, to 1st Sergeant and to 2nd Lieut. Served a
time as acting Quarter Master of the Artillery Brigade of the 6th Army
Corps. Mustered out July 3, 1865. Veteran. Marietta, O.

QUINBY, DANIEL W.--Private Co. L, 1st O. Cavalry, January 4, 1864.
Mustered out September 26, 1865. Was also private in Co. A, 87th Ohio,
for three months. Belle Plaine, Kas.

* RANGER, JOHN.--Private Battery H, 1st O. Light Artillery, Oct. 21,
1861. Mustered out October 21, 1864 on expiration of term of service.

* RANGER, WM. H.--Private Battery C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery.
Promoted to Corporal. Mustered out with Battery. Veteran.

* REIGNEY, MILTON.--Private Co. L, 1st O. Cavalry, Sept. 16, 1861.
Discharged May 1, 1862 on Surgeon’s certificate of disability.

* REPPERT, WALTER.--Private Co. L, 1st O. Cavalry, Feby. 1st, 1863.
Promoted to Corporal Sept. 19, 1864. Mustered out with regiment Sept.
26, 1865.

* RIPLEY, P. S.--Private Co. C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery. Mustered
out with Battery. Veteran.

* ROBINSON, WILLIAM.--Did not re-enter the service.

* SCHERER, PETER.--Private Battery C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery.

SCOTT, WILLIAM N.

* SHAW, JOHN L.--Did not re-enter the service.

SHIRES, ROBERT.--Musician Co. D, 63rd O. Infantry. Appointed Principal
Musician, July 21, 1862. Mustered out with the regiment. Veteran.

* SHOCKLEY, DAVID.--Bugler, Battery H, 1st O. Light Artillery, October
28, 1861. Mustered out with battery. Veteran.

* SHOOP, HUGH.--Private Battery C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery. Promoted
to Corporal. Discharged Dec. 19, 1862.

SMITH, JOHN W.--Private Co. L, 1st O. Cavalry, Sept. 16, 1861.
Discharged March 2, 1863, on Surgeon’s certificate of disability.

* SNODGRASS, WILLIAM H.--Private Co. L, 1st O. Cavalry, Sept. 16, 1861.
Promoted to Corporal but was reduced at his own request. Mustered out
with company Sept. 26, 1865. Veteran.

* STANLEY, JAMES.--First Lieutenant, Co. G, 36th O. Infantry, August
12th, 1861. Promoted to Captain Co. D, June 6, 1862. Mustered out on
expiration of term of service.

STANTON, HENRY B.

* STARK, HORATIO O.

STEWART, TARTUS L.

STEWART, WILLIAM.

* STREMPLE, CHARLES.

* THORNILEY, THOMAS R.--Private Co. L, 1st O. Cavalry, Sept. 16, 1861.
Died in hospital at Nashville, Tenn, August 23, 1864.

TUCKER, ABNER.--Private Battery C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery.
Discharged on Surgeon’s certificate of disability, January 13, 1863.
Marietta, O.

TURNER, JAMES.

* UNDERWOOD, OSCAR.--Second Lieutenant Co. L, 1st O. Cavalry, Sept. 16,
1861. Resigned May 31, 1862.

* VICKERS, GEORGE.--Private Co. F, 39th O. Infantry, Dec. 12, 1861.
Mustered out with regiment. Veteran.

VOSHEL, JAMES.

WEST, GORDON B.--Private Co. G, 77th O. Infantry, March 12, 1862.
Promoted to Sergt. Major, April 1, 1862. Severely wounded, April 6,
1862 at Shiloh. Promoted to 2nd Lieut. Co. G, February 11, 1863, and to
1st Lieut. and Regimental Q. M., March 29, 1865. Commissioned Captain,
March 7, 1866, but not mustered. Mustered out with regiment, March 8,
1866.

WILSON, CHARLES P.--Private Co. F, 79th O. Infantry. Served as clerk
in the Adjutant General’s department, East Tenn. Nov. 6, 1863,
commissioned 1st Lieut. and Adjutant of 2nd North Carolina Mounted
Infantry. Resigned August ----, 1864. Pomona, Cal.


“PONY SECTION”

The ten recruits brought to the regiment June 18, by Major Corey, were
nearly all boys, whom some one very aptly dubbed “The Pony Section.”
Our company being entitled to but two musicians, and having our
complement already, these boys were assigned to the other companies of
the regiment and were borne upon their rolls, but as the Drum Corps
remained with Co. B nearly all the term of our service they were
treated as Co. B boys and I append to that of the regular roll of the
company their after service.

BRENAN, FRANK R.--Bugler, Battery C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery.
Mustered out with battery. Marietta, O.

COREY, HENRY.--Musician, (drummer), Co. G, 36th O. Infantry. Mustered
out with regiment, July 27, 1865. Veteran. Moulton, Iowa.

* HOLDEN, CHARLES.--Private Battery C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery,
March 30, 1862. Died at Centerville, Va., Dec. 7, 1862.

JENVEY, GEORGE K.--Bugler, Co. F, 2nd W. Va. Cavalry, November 19,
1861. Re-enlisted, January 1, 1864. Mustered out with regiment.
Veteran. Washington, D. C.

JUDD, JAMES G.--Musician, (drummer), Co. I, 36th O. Infantry, Aug. 12,
1861. Mustered out with regiment July 27, 1865. Veteran. Marietta, O.

* LANGLEY, HENRY M.--Enlisted in Battery C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery
at its organization. Appointed 2nd Lieut., Oct. 16, 1862. Resigned
April 22, 1863.

* REGNIER, FREDERICK.--Private Battery H, 1st O. Light Artillery, Oct.
17, 1861. Mustered out Nov. 17, 1864, at expiration of term of service.

ROBERTS, JAMES D.

* SMITH, WM. H.--In gunboat service on western rivers.

TENNEY, JOHN.--Musician, (fifer) Co. E, 36th O. Infantry, Aug. 31,
1861. Appointed Principal Musician, Sept. 10, 1864. Mustered out with
regiment. Veteran. Broken Arrow, Okla.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the expiration of our term of enlistment nearly all the members of
the company re-entered the service. I have found but nine who are known
not to have re-entered the army, and most of these did more or less
militia duty from time to time during the war. Those reentering the
service were distributed as follows:

  “Buell’s Battery”--C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery  29
  Battery A, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery              1
  1st Ohio Cavalry                                  13
  36th Ohio Infantry                                 8
  1st O. Light Artillery, Battery H                  5
  1st O. Light Artillery, Battery K                  2
  39th Ohio Infantry                                 4
  77th Ohio Infantry                                 2
  63rd Ohio Infantry                                 2
  60th Ohio Infantry                                 1
  79th O. and 2nd N. C. Mounted Infantry             1
  9th O. Cavalry                                     1
                                                    __
                                                    70

Of the members of the “Pony Section,” 3 went into “Buell’s Battery,”
3 into the 36th O. Infantry, 1 into the 2nd W. Va. Cavalry, 1 into
Battery H, 1st O. Lt. Artillery and 1 into the Gunboat service.

Of those who re-entered the service 21 became commissioned officers
and almost all the others became non-commissioned officers. I have
accounted for 75 of the company, leaving 24 unaccounted for. The names
of these stand on the roll with no explanatory remarks appended.

Those known to have died number 56; those known to be living, 19;
unascertained, 24.

The formal muster out of the regiment dates August 28, 1861. The muster
in of Co. B dates April 17, 1861, making the term served by the company
4 months and 11 days.

       *       *       *       *       *

In closing this sketch I want to return my hearty thanks to Dr. John T.
Booth, of Cincinnati, Ohio, for the kind loan of his invaluable diary
of “Three months with the 18th Ohio Infantry 3 months troops.” By its
help I have been enabled to fix dates and locations for which I had no
other resource. I have drawn largely too from his narrative, at times
using his very language, for which I had his generous warrant. He was a
member of the company and afterwards spent three years in the service
with the 36th O. Infantry. He is the historian of that regiment, his
unpublished history of which is an inexhaustive mine of information.




NOTES COL. CLARKE--CAPT. BUELL.


A strange coincidence is that of the similar deaths of Colonel Clarke
and Captain Buell. Within 18 months from the morning upon which Col.
Clarke presented to our company the beautiful flag mentioned as the
gift of the women of Marietta and its acceptance by Captain Buell,
both had fallen in battle, Col. Clarke leading his regiment, the 36th
O. Infantry, at Antietam, Maryland, and Captain Buell commanding his
battery, C, 1st W. Va. Light Artillery, at Freeman’s Ford, Virginia.

(From the “Marietta Intelligencer” of May 1, 1861.)

  “The following is a part of a communication from one who occasionally
  contributes to our columns. It is a worthy tribute to the stranger
  volunteer.

  “... But I cannot close without paying a passing tribute to the noble
  heroism of one of the volunteers who left us, today. I saw in the
  ranks a young German who evidently was a stranger here. I was told
  that he was simply on a visit to this country, but seeing the hour
  of peril upon us he boldly stepped into the ranks of those brave and
  true hearts who have just left us. As they moved down to the boat and
  friends were taking a final parting, he burst into tears, saying: ‘I
  have no friends here to bid me good bye.’ I need not say how a chord
  was struck by those simple words which went to every heart; his hands
  were grasped with a fervor which told that such noble self-sacrifice
  claimed the homage of every true heart.”

John T. Booth, in his diary under date of June 19th, in camp near
Bridgeport, Va., notes: “I received a letter today from Miss Mary J.
Krewson, of Birmingham, opposite Pittsburg, Pa. (the lady who at the
close of the war became my wife.) We were playmates when about three
years of age.” (Note--Dr. Booth and his good wife are both living and
enjoying the comforts of an ideal home at No. 3646 Central avenue,
Cincinnati, O.)




OUR CAMPS.


Our first, at Columbus, was “Camp Jackson,” now beautiful Goodale
Park. At Athens, where we spent but a few days, our camp was by some
called “Camp Jewett,” but I remember it as “Camp Scott.” At Marietta,
“Camp Putnam.” At Parkersburg, “Camp Union,” so christened by Captain
Buell. At the first “burnt bridge,” near Petroleum Station, on the B.
& O. railroad, our camp took the name of “Camp Whip po’will” from the
nocturnal and lugubrious serenades furnished us by this strange bird.
Our next camp near Toll Gate Station, being located in an old pasture
field, covered with briars, was dubbed “Camp Briar Patch,” by Manly
Warren, a name that stuck.

We next went into camp near Bridgeport on the beautiful farm of a Mr.
Sandusky and for him we named our camp “Sandusky.” We remained at
Oakland but a few days and I think no name was given this uncomfortable
camping place.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following resolution, with others, was adopted by the boys while we
were quartered at the Ohio Penitentiary:

  “Resolved, that this company owes a debt of gratitude to G. W.
  Gill, and to John A. Prentice, Warden of the Ohio Penitentiary,
  for relieving this company from the subterranean vaults of the
  State Capitol and furnishing them with comfortable quarters due to
  civilized and intelligent citizen soldiers....

  R. L. NYE, Secy. T. G. FIELD, Chairman.”

The following from the “Marietta Republican” of May 24, notes the one
loss by death that came to us during our whole term of service.

  “George W. Ridgeway, one of the Marietta Volunteers, was taken sick
  at Columbus and discharged. A short time after he got home he died,
  and was buried at Rainbow, last Sunday (19th) with the honors of war
  by the Union Blues and the Defiance Infantry Company.”




CAPTAIN BUELL.


I have made no effort to prepare a biography of Captain Buell, the
sketch is itself in a way a biography. He is the central figure of my
little history and aside from his work with the Pierpoint Battery it
gives a full history of his service.

He was born at Lowell, Washington county, Ohio, April 24, 1837, and
was the youngest son of Perez B. and Elizabeth (Rector) Buell. His
23rd birthday he spent in “Camp Jackson,” at Columbus, two days after
leaving Marietta with his company. He had chosen the profession of the
law and was Prosecuting Attorney of Washington county when the war
broke out. He was killed in battle at Freeman’s Ford, Fauquier county,
Virginia, August 22, 1862.

At the time of his death he had been selected for a higher command
and had he lived a few days longer would have received substantial
promotion in the artillery arm of the service. His distinguished
bearing had attracted the attention of such soldiers as Generals Siegel
and Milroy, the Chief of Artillery of the 11th Corps and others.

His remains were buried at Bealton Station and in the following
December were removed to the family burying ground located on the old
home farm, at Lowell. His comrades of Battery C erected a handsome
monument at his grave soon after the close of the war.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the preparation of the foregoing pages I have been actuated by a
desire to place in convenient and permanent form the simple facts
connected with the company’s modest service. We were not only the
first from Washington county to respond to the president’s call for
volunteers but were the first from all southeastern Ohio. Only 9 of the
220 companies of three months’ volunteers, accepted by the government
antedated our enrollment (these were dated the 16th) and but 17 others
bore even date with us.

I have attempted simply to state facts in as plain a way as possible
that may be of value so far as they go to the future searcher in this
pioneer service of the war. The work has taken considerable time and
labor but it has been one of pleasure and I shall be more than repaid
if it meets with the approval of my surviving comrades and the friends
of Captain Buell and his pioneer company of patriotic volunteers.

  JEWETT PALMER.
  Marietta, O., April 22, 1911.

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber’s Notes:

The one footnote has been moved to the end of its chapter and relabeled.

Punctuation has been made consistent.

Variations in spelling and hyphenation were retained as they appear in
the original publication, except that obvious typographical errors have
been corrected.

p. 12, p. 16: Name is given as Fougeres on p. 12 and Fougere on p. 16.

p. 23: Entries in the table do not sum to the total listed.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of A Historical Sketch of Company "B,"
Eighteenth Regiment Ohio Volunteer , by Jewett Palmer

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HISTORICAL SKETCH OF COMPANY B ***

***** This file should be named 60243-0.txt or 60243-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/0/2/4/60243/

Produced by Craig Kirkwood and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive.)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

